The data we are using come from the World Bank's [World Development Indicators](http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog/world-development-indicators)(WDI) database. This database contains time series of economic, environmental, and social variables for every country in the world from 1960-2016. The datasets are compiled from a variety of other international sources. The availability of data by country varies considerably by which variable you look at in which year. For this project, I have chosen a set of variables from 2010 that have relatively few missing values and I have removed any countries with missing values on any of the chosen variables, leaving a final dataset of 175 countries out of the 217 countries included in the full WDI data. 

Here is a full description of each of the variables in the dataset that we will use. 

- **co2percap**: Metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions per capita (i.e. per person). This data is collected by the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee. Because we are measuring this on a per-capita basis, the effect of population on overall CO2 emissions is already basically "controlled for" in the data. 
- **popdensity**: Number of people (in 1000s) per square kilometer of land. This is calculated by dividing population size by a country's total land area, excluding inland water bodies. 
- **pcturban**: The percent of the total population that lives in urban areas. This data is collected by the United Nations. The definition of an urban area is based on country-specific designations which may vary from country to country. 
- **pctworkage**: The percent of the total population between the ages of 15 and 64. This is generally thought of as the "working age" population in contrast to the two "dependent" populations of seniors (65 and older) and youth (under 15). Development economists argue that the increase in the relative size of the working age population has been key to the economic growth of many developing economies, particulary in east Asia. 
- **fdi**: Foreign direct investment net inflows as a percentage of overall gross domestic product (GDP). This data comes from several sources including the International Monetary Fund, and gives us a measure of how much foreign capital investment is being made in a country. 
- **exports**: The value of all goods and services provided to the rest of the world as a percentage of GDP. 
- **incomelevels**: A three-category ordinal variable measuring the overall income level of the country as "Low", "Medium", or "High". This variable is based on a World Bank designation that establishes cutoffs based on measured Gross National Income (GNI) per capita. Values less than \$1,025 are low, values between \$1,025 and \$12,745 are medium, and values above \$12,745 are high. 